I've left things to the last minute and I'm running out of options. Some places can partially fulfil my request for a room, but the evening of the 10th is booked out everywhere. I think it has to do with Obon. People usually leave the big smoke to go visit their family during Obon, but I don't see why that'd lead to a massive spike in hotel occupation *in Tokyo*.

At the suggestion of a coworker I hit up Airbnb. I've seen them mentioned before, but it always sounded a bit informal and couch-surfy to me, which I don't really go in for. But looked I did, and boy am I impressed. There's nothing in Akiba, but there are places open in Shinjuku, Shibuya, Roppongi and a whole bunch of others, it's just a question of how much I'm willing to spend. The place in Roppongi is absolute barebones, just a bed to crash on in a tiny apartment, but it's cheap. I do like the sound of it. On the other end, a flash apartment close to transport can be had for 450 AUD per night. I'm so bloody tempted, but I know I don't really need to spend that money, so I don't.

In the middle, then, is a place in Shibuya. Decently located, offers the kind if privacy I desire, with a fair set of facilities included. The host looks like Tiger from Tiger and Bunny, which is a plus. I sign up on the spot and send my request over. I'm in town for a few nights, quiet non-smoking person, visiting Comiket before heading up to Aomori. Tiger responds in about half an hour, I'm very pleasantly surprised. The deal's good and I'm not set for comiket.


DS8_4718.jpg
Caption: The room is huge by Japanese standards. Minimally furnished, there's a bed with pillows, some towels, and a radio/clock/thing. In the corner is a good selection of magazines and various reading materials. Most importantly, there's an aircon unit on the wall.

Heck, the whole apartment is huge. It's the top level of the 4 storey building and comprises two level. My room is downstairs with a couple other bedrooms and a laundry and bathroom. Upstairs is a couple of rooms used for storage and the common area.

DS8_4725.jpg
Caption: The common area is big as well, and has a fantastic view out over the city. The balcony area is probably bigger than the inside of the apartment, and is perfect for partying.

DS8_4733.jpg
Caption: If you're feeling adventurous, you can climb up to the top of the roof for a better view.





Stepping off the train in Shin-Aomori it's still hot in the sun, but the temperature is much more bearable compared to down south. I down another vending machine drink and get moving to Aomori station, which is several kilometres east in the middle of town.

My Toyoko Inn is fantastically located. It's right near the station, and looks straight out onto Aomori Bay Bridge and an interesting looking art gallery/museum.

DS8_4736.jpg
Caption: This is actually from the station, but who's counting?

DS8_4737.jpg
Caption: Noone can really decide on what this should be called. "Wa-rasse" or "Wrasse" seem to be the two most common signposted names.

I'm a little behind schedule, but it's no big deal. My plan is to grab the rental car and then make my way up to Mutsu, where I'll be staying at a little place named B&B Muu. As long as I get to Muu, I've got a bed for the night.

Stumbling through the car rental is surprisingly not too difficult. Ast and Akira handled it last time, but it turns out that very little Japanese is needed, and enough of the paperwork is in English to make it easy. The car I've got is a Corolla Fielder, which is apparently the big wagon version of the Corolla sedan. It's noticeably gutsier than the Vitz that I drove last time and pleasant enough to drive.

I want to get on the road as soon as possible, so I pick a local train station a bit to the easy on google maps and start navigating. The first thing I notice once I start driving is… just how much the main road reminds me of Parramatta Road in Sydney. There plenty of "stuff" along the way, but it feels grim and desolate somehow.


I can't actually roll right up to the station as I planned, but can get close enough. It's quiet and the only noise in the area comes from a nearby truck depot for a shipping company. The end of the road gives way to gravel, and then is overtaken by tall grassy overgrowth.

As I get out of the car I notice the air yet again. The breeze is soft, carrying a nostalgic summery moisture with it and the smell of salt. It reminds me of going swimming as a kid, when you'd come up out of the sea still soaking wet, and the wind trying in vain to evaporate the water from your skin.


DS8_4745.jpg
Caption: Left alone, as best I can tell, the remains of this two-storey shack is the only thing making much noise. A sheet of metal hangs from underneath the eaves creaking gently in the wind and scraping across the corrugated roofing at intervals. It's not clear what the purpose of the shack was, though the water tank outside suggests it was habitable. It's very modest in size, but it would be liveable in a basic manner.



On the way out of town I spot a set of stairs leading up to a shrine. It's covered by greenery and the stairs are steep so I can't see what's up there, but my interest is piqued. There's a small playground at the bottom of the stairs, so I park next to that and head up.

Opening the car door I'm greeted by a cacophony of cicadas underneath the trees. This is the real deal! Having only come during winter before, I've never heard cicadas in Japan. It probably sounds silly, but it feels weird to find them in reality when your only exposure has been through fiction. I just need to make myself to Hinamizawa and I'll be all set…


DS8_4751.jpg
Caption: The shrine is all closed up. It's a modest affair but I'm curious enough to walk up the steps and cast my gaze around.


Hang on. Standing at the top of the steps, looking down, I spot something out the corner of my left eye. Hanging off one of the fairy lights is a small keychain figure. What the heck is that doing here?

DS8_4753.jpg
Caption: Hah, that's Mine (FIXME) from Hidan no Aria! That's a pretty good choice, not something I would have expected.

DS8_4754.jpg
Caption: On a hunch I check the right side of the steps as well. Sure enough, there's Marie Antoinette.


I probably won't make it to Mount Osorezan today, there's just too much to explore along the way. Unlike Tokyo, which wastes nothing, I see a lot of old structures that seem to be left alone when they're no longer needed. I guess it just makes sense that way. It'd be extra effort to clean them up, and there's no demand for it either.

DS8_4758.jpg
Caption: A little way up a hilly section of road is this rusted out shell of an old farmhouse. The roof has fallen in atop a pile of dirt, and the ground is thoroughly undriveable.

DS8_4763.jpg
Caption: I guess it used to house tractors or some other piece of heavy farm machinery.


The road winds along, turning north to head up the Shimokitazawa peninsula, hugging the coastline. Along the way I drive past a beach. A real beach! Beaches are unheard of in Tokyo unless I'm mistaken, and this is a good one. The artificial breakwall creates two crescent shapes extending out from the shore, with a floating boom strung between them. I can't help but be reminded of the bogey hole at Bronte beach, which has the same shape and provides a similarly protected area in which to swim. Off the south end of the breakwall is a small area where people are calmly fishing and soaking up the sun.

In the distance I can hear songs and the odd announcement over a PA system. This is accompanied by the smell of sausages cooking on a barbecue further along the shore. It's a funny feeling; thousands of kilometres away, and yet it feels so perfectly like… home. What a great place, and I don't even know the name of it.


DS8_4768.jpg
Caption: The break wall here is kinda weird, all the blocks are cubic instead of being tetrahedrons like everywhere else.

DS8_4768.jpg
Caption: Families swimming, stalls along the beach, a hot day and salt in the air.


Further along the way I pull off the road and stop in the carpark of a Lawson. I've just been driving past the most stunning fields of green that I've ever seen, and this is the perfect spot for some pictures. I don't know what they grow here, but it doesn't matter.


Something maddening about the road up north is that it's only two lanes, one in each direction. That means that overtaking (safely) is practically impossible, and the speed limit is nominally 50 km/h. Everyone goes about 70km/h anyway, but it's frustrating that you can't put your foot down when you want to.


I initially thought that Muu was going to be a solitary sort of place in a small town, but Mutsu is geographically much larger than I expected. It really is mostly like any other town, though the blocks for each property are pretty big so everything is more spread out. In that way, Muu doesn't really stand out as much as I expected it to, though it *is* still a log cabin in Japan.

Nakagawa-san lives here with his dog, Arashi, I think. Through some halting Japanese on my part, he invites me in and I cart my suitcase up the stairs to the room I'll be staying in.

DS8_4777.jpg
Caption: Muu is a richly furnished place, it's picture-perfect in every way. I'm the only guest at Muu tonight, and the room I'm staying in is named Nanohana (菜の花). You can't see it here, but the room has Bose speakers fixed to the wall, connected to an expensive amplifier. I'm guessing that Nakagawa-san really likes music. The bathroom is also full of books, magazines on various DiY topics, and neatly arranged volumes of classic manga series.



Talk about what he does, about the peninsula, photo albums, the nuclear reactors, the wind farms, his wife, the BRZ, baths, yakuza guy, Sukiya, breakfast, Mizuki Nana, Kanayan,

The road towards Osorezan is windy, so even though it's not very far, it'll take a little while. I meant to time trial the stretch, but of course there were other people on the road so I couldn't put the pressure on for more than about a minute or so.

Osorezan is a Buddhist temple built on a volcanic mountain renowned for its sulphur coming up to the surface. It's dry and hot, and I can see why it earnt the nickname of *Hell*.


DS8_4793.jpg
Caption: Statues line the entrance to the temple.


As I walk inside the temple gates the smell of sulphur gets noticeable stronger. It's not super strong, but it's that pungent eggy smell that lingers on the senses that you can't ignore.


DS8_4795.jpg
Caption: The grounds of the temple are generous, as you'd expect from a place with plenty of room.

DS8_4798.jpg
Caption: Little statue looks like a chess piece. Not sure what the rocks have written on them.

DS8_4812.jpg
Caption: The 10 yen coins that people donate have turned a brilliant blue! At a guess, I'd say that copper or copper oxide is reacting with sulphuric acid, producing copper sulfate on the surface.


*photo of sulfur vent*
maybe 4824


DS8_4824.jpg
Hot rock, 70.4 degrees


DS8_4829.jpg
Steps and path


All the rocks are in piles

